# UNIX Handbook 4th Edition

## Introduction

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/big-bubbles/8407127853/" title="UNIX
Handbook 4th Edition by aderixon, on Flickr"><img
src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8464/8407127853_6ece1c3cc3_n.jpg"
width="240" height="320" alt="UNIX Handbook 4th Edition"></a>

This is an online version of the hardcopy manual given to new
undergraduates by the Computer Science department at University College of
Wales, Aberystwyth in the late 80s/early 90s. It was intended to assist
them in finding their way around the SunOS computing environment provided
by the department on which students were to undertake their assignments.

I am not sure of the provenance of this documentation. While the cover
states "Copyright 1979, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Incorporated" (and
allows that copies may be made by 'holders of a UNIX software license'), it
also shows the department name in the top right corner. Whether this
Handbook was ever released by Bell Labs in this form, or whether the
department simply collated relevant papers and manuals from Bell into this
format is not clear. I haven't come across an equivalent to this
collection online (only documents such as the 'UNIX Programmers Manual').

My own copy of the Handbook is dated 10/OCT/88, but I have chosen links to
the closest matching equivalent contents found via Google.

## Why?

This collection functions as both a valuable reminder of the original UNIX
documentation, in many cases written by the pioneering engineers
themselves, and as an introduction to basic UNIX command line usage that
may still be useful for new users. Most if not all of the examples here
should still work on a modern UNIX or UNIX-equivalent system such as
Linux. However, obviously it will not include later developments such as
the GNU utilities and modern desktop environments.

It also tells you how to pronounce 'vi' correctly.

For more information on the background behind this project, see [this blog
post](http://www.big-bubbles.fluff.org/blogs/bubbles/blog/2013/01/23/unix-handbook-4th-edition/)
and [this one](http://www.big-bubbles.fluff.org/blogs/bubbles/blog/2013/01/22/linuxs-not-unix/).

## Maintenance

If you find any broken links or have suggestions for improvement, please
either get in touch via Github or submit a pull request. Note that I'm not
particularly interested in adding documentation about later UNIX features.

## Copyright

Copyright of the individual contents remain with the original
organisations and their successors. As I have only provided links to
publically accessible online versions of these articles, I assume this
representation is exempt from copyright concerns. However, the modern
Internet being what it is, I am sure if anyone else's opinion differs then
I will swiftly hear about it.

...But note that is not the ethos under which UNIX originally propagated.

(If you own one of the sites I've linked to and would prefer not to have
the link included, please let me know. All links were retrieved from
Google.)

## Curator

Ade Rixon, [Big Bubbles (No Troubles)](http://www.big-bubbles.org.uk/)

$Id$
